README.md, before:

# LaMoTO
Language Modelling Tasks as Objects (LaMoTO) provides a framework for language model training (masked and causal, pretraining and finetuning) where the tasks, not just the models, are classes themselves.
It abstracts over the HuggingFace `transformers.Trainer` with one goal: reduce the entire model training process to a single
method call `task.train(hyperparameters)`.

## Usage
Let's say you want to train a RoBERTa-base model for dependency parsing (for which, by the way, there is no HuggingFace
class). This is how you would do that in LaMoTO, supported by the magic of [ArchIt](https://github.com/bauwenst/ArchIt):

```python
from archit.instantiation.basemodels import RobertaBaseModel
from archit.instantiation.heads import DependencyParsingHeadConfig, BaseModelExtendedConfig
from lamoto.tasks import DP, getDefaultHyperparameters

# Define task hyperparameters.
hp = getDefaultHyperparameters()
hp.MODEL_CONFIG_OR_CHECKPOINT = "roberta-base"
hp.archit_basemodel_class = RobertaBaseModel
hp.archit_head_config = DependencyParsingHeadConfig(
    head_dropout=0.33,
    extended_model_config=BaseModelExtendedConfig(
        layer_pooling=1
    )
)

# Instantiate language modelling task as object, and train model.
task = DP()
task.train(hyperparameters=hp)
```

## Features
- [x] Train models on >15 pre-training/fine-tuning tasks. See a list by importing `from lamoto.tasks`.
  - Model architectures come from [ArchIt](https://github.com/bauwenst/ArchIt), which means that as long as you have a
    `BaseModel` wrapper for your language model backbone, you can train it on any task, regardless of whether you wrote
    code defining the backbone-with-head architecture required for that task.
  - Custom (i.e. given) architectures are also supported.
- [x] Evaluate models with a superset of the metrics in HuggingFace's `evaluate`, with custom inference procedures (see e.g. strided pseudo-perplexity or bits-per-character).
- [x] Augment datasets before training or evaluating by somehow perturbing them.
- [x] Supports [TkTkT](https://github.com/bauwenst/TkTkT) tokenisers.
- [x] Weights-and-Biases integration.

## Installation
If you don't want to edit the source code yourself, run
```
pip install "lamoto[github] @ git+https://github.com/bauwenst/LaMoTO"
```
and if you do, instead run
```
git clone https://github.com/bauwenst/LaMoTO
cd LaMoTO
pip install -e .[github]
```
To be able to use the Weights-and-Biases integration, make sure you first run `wandb login` in a command-line terminal 
on the system you want to run on.

<!-- If you are me from the future: don't include the `[github]` tag, it will fuck up the editable installs for the packages I maintain. -->

Commit message:

Fixed bug that broke DP tuning, improved PoS data filtering, and a logo. - PoS tagging now filters out MWE replications just like DP. - Fixed bug that caused DP to work in training but fail in tuning. 	- What was happening was that the DP-specific field self._metric, to which we add logit-label results, was set only once throughout the lifetime of the task object, rather than on every training run. Hence, when metrics got reinitialised, results were being added to an otherwise forgotten reference, not the current metric object, and so all DP experiments evaluated to 0% UAS/LAS/UCM/LCM. 	- Temporary task fields are now also reset explicitly with a method. - Added a logo because I felt cutesie.

README.md, after:

<img src="doc/logo.png">

# LaMoTO: Language Modelling Tasks as Objects
Language Modelling Tasks as Objects (LaMoTO) provides a framework for language model training (masked and causal, pretraining and finetuning) where the tasks, not just the models, are classes themselves.
It abstracts over the HuggingFace `transformers.Trainer` with one goal: reduce the entire model training process to a single
method call `task.train(hyperparameters)`.

## Usage
Let's say you want to train a RoBERTa-base model for dependency parsing (for which, by the way, there is no HuggingFace
class). This is how you would do that in LaMoTO, supported by the magic of [ArchIt](https://github.com/bauwenst/ArchIt):

```python
from archit.instantiation.basemodels import RobertaBaseModel
from archit.instantiation.heads import DependencyParsingHeadConfig, BaseModelExtendedConfig
from lamoto.tasks import DP
from lamoto.training.auxiliary.hyperparameters import getDefaultHyperparameters

# Define task hyperparameters.
hp = getDefaultHyperparameters()
hp.MODEL_CONFIG_OR_CHECKPOINT = "roberta-base"
hp.archit_basemodel_class = RobertaBaseModel
hp.archit_head_config = DependencyParsingHeadConfig(
    head_dropout=0.33,
    extended_model_config=BaseModelExtendedConfig(
        layer_pooling=1
    )
)

# Instantiate language modelling task as object, and train model.
task = DP()
task.train(hyperparameters=hp)
```

## Features
- [x] Train models on >15 pre-training/fine-tuning tasks. See a list by importing `from lamoto.tasks`.
  - Model architectures come from [ArchIt](https://github.com/bauwenst/ArchIt), which means that as long as you have a
    `BaseModel` wrapper for your language model backbone, you can train it on any task, regardless of whether you wrote
    code defining the backbone-with-head architecture required for that task.
  - Custom (i.e. given) architectures are also supported.
- [x] Evaluate models with a superset of the metrics in HuggingFace's `evaluate`, with custom inference procedures (see e.g. strided pseudo-perplexity or bits-per-character).
- [x] Augment datasets before training or evaluating by somehow perturbing them.
- [x] Supports [TkTkT](https://github.com/bauwenst/TkTkT) tokenisers.
- [x] Weights-and-Biases integration.

## Installation
If you don't want to edit the source code yourself, run
```
pip install "lamoto[github] @ git+https://github.com/bauwenst/LaMoTO"
```
and if you do, instead run
```
git clone https://github.com/bauwenst/LaMoTO
cd LaMoTO
pip install -e .[github]
```
To be able to use the Weights-and-Biases integration, make sure you first run `wandb login` in a command-line terminal 
on the system you want to run on.

<!-- If you are me from the future: don't include the `[github]` tag, it will fuck up the editable installs for the packages I maintain. -->
